Refactored Ansible guide to integrate with Machine ID (#10987)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/machine-id/guides/ansible.mdx

---

> title: Ansible

Reviewer: I think description is short enough where we could use it as the title as well for some more SEO.

description: Using Teleport Machine ID with Ansible
---

In this guide, you will set up an Ansible playbook to run the OpenSSH client
with a configuration file that is automatically managed by Machine ID.

## Prerequisites

You will need the following tools to use Teleport with Ansible.

- [Teleport Enterprise](../../enterprise/introduction.mdx) or [Teleport Cloud](../../cloud/introduction.mdx) >= 9.0.0
- `ssh` OpenSSH tool
- `ansible` >= (=ansible.min_version=)
- Optional tool `jq` to process `JSON` output

> In addition, if you already have not done so, follow the

Reviewer 2: @russjones @ptgott important piece that guides should be self-contained. In this instance we are sending user to read a different guide - getting started first:

https://goteleport.com/docs/contributing/documentation/style-guide/#how-to-guides

> Do not break the reader's focus. Do not link the reader to another page—or even another section within the same page—when it is possible to include the same content in the current paragraph or section.

You can use partials to reduce duplication of the content internally.

> [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../docs/pages/machine-id/getting-started.mdx)

Reviewer: We'll need to update the link path

to create a bot user and start Machine ID.

If you followed the above guide, you are interested in the
`--destination-dir=/opt/machine-id` flag, which defines the directory where
SSH certificates and OpenSSH configuration used by Ansible will be written.

> In particular, you will be using `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config` file in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, you will be using the `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config` file in your
```

Ansible configuration to define how Ansible should connect to Teleport Nodes.

## Step 1/2. Configure Ansible

> Create a folder `ansible` where all Ansible files will be collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a folder named `ansible` where all Ansible files will be collected.
```

```code
$ mkdir -p ansible
$ cd ansible
```

Create a file called `ansible.cfg`. We will configure Ansible 
to run the OpenSSH client with the configuration file generated 
by Machine ID, `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config`.

```
[defaults]
host_key_checking = True
inventory=./hosts
remote_tmp=/tmp

[ssh_connection]
scp_if_ssh = True
ssh_args = -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config
```

> You can create an inventory file `hosts` manually or use a script like the one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an inventory file called `hosts` manually or use a script like the one
```

below to generate it from your environment. Note, `example.com` here is the
name of your Teleport cluster.

```code
$ tsh ls --format=json | jq -r '.[].spec.hostname + ".example.com"' > hosts
```

## Step 2/2. Run a playbook

> Finally, let's create a simple Ansible playbook `playbook.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, let's create a simple Ansible playbook, `playbook.yaml`.
```

Ansible uses the OpenSSH client by default. Teleport supports SSH protocol and
works as SSH jumphost.

In this guide we will configure OpenSSH client to work with Machine ID
and run a sample Ansible playbook.

## Prerequisites

* Installed [Teleport Enterprise](../../enterprise/introduction.mdx) or [Teleport Cloud](../../cloud/introduction.mdx) >= (=teleport.version=)
* `tbot` client tool  >= 9.0.0
* `ssh` OpenSSH tool
* `ansible` >= (=ansible.min_version=)
* Optional tool `jq` to process `JSON` output

> ## Step 1/3. Start Machine ID

Reviewer: I think it would be better not to base a "Step n" section on an external guide, since that means that a reader will need to switch contexts. Some possible alternatives:

- Add something like this as a Prerequisite step: "A host with Machine ID running. See the [Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../docs/pages/machine-id/getting-started.mdx) for details."
- Copy and paste steps 1-3 of the Machine ID Getting Started Guide into the Ansible guide. Readers who already know how Machine ID works can speed through these sections while readers new to Machine ID won't have to leave the page.
- Since the Ansible-related steps are fairly short, it could even make sense to include them in the Machine ID Getting Started guide after Step 4, and not have this separate guide.

Author: @ptgott Updated and rolled a lot of this into `Prerequisites` section. I think we should still have seperate guides as there is a lot of context around the different integrations where the Getting Started guide might get too messy especially as the number of integrations grows.

However, as docs owners, I'll let you and @xinding33 decide.

If you already have not done so, follow the
[Machine ID Getting Started Guide](../../docs/pages/machine-id/getting-started.mdx)
to create a bot user and start Machine ID.

If you followed the above guide, you are interested in the
`--destination-dir=/opt/machine-id` flag, which defines the directory where

> SSH certificates and OpenSSH configuration used by Ansible will be written to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSH certificates and OpenSSH configuration used by Ansible will be written.
```

> In particular, you will be using `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config` in Ansible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, you will be using `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config` in your Ansible
```

> configuration to define how Ansible should connect to Teleport nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration to define how Ansible should connect to Teleport Nodes.
```

<Admonition type="tip">

> You can edit matching patterns used in `ssh.cfg` if something

Reviewer: I know this Admonition is from the original guide, but I'm not sure what this means. Is this saying that any error is probably due to a misconfigured host address match in the SSH client config? It might be okay to remove this since we have a Troubleshooting section at the end.

> 

Author: Sorry @benarent, I don't full understand. Why do we want to turn off host key checking?

> 

Reviewer 3: I imagine it's related to https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/11000

[ssh_connection]
scp_if_ssh = True

> ssh_args = -F /opt/machine-id/ssh_config

Reviewer: I think it might help clarify/emphasize the usefulness of Machine ID to call out the fact that we're using a Machine ID-managed directory in the sentence "Create a file `ansible.cfg`". Maybe something like:

```markdown
Create a file called `ansible.cfg`. We will configure Ansible 
to run the OpenSSH client with the configuration file generated 
by Machine ID, `/opt/machine-id/ssh_config`.
```

```

> You can create an inventory file `hosts` manually or use a script like below to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create an inventory file `hosts` manually or use a script like the one below to
```

```

You are all set. You are now using short-lived SSH certificates and Teleport can now record
all Ansible commands in the audit log.

## Troubleshooting

> In case if Ansible can not connect, you may see error like this one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case if Ansible cannot connect, you may see error like this one:
```
